# Contributing

This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

Bug reports and suggestions for improvements are welcome! For this, please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/piknotech/SFSafeSymbols/issues). [Pull requests](https://github.com/piknotech/SFSafeSymbols/pulls) are also very much welcome. However, for non-trivial changes, please make sure to raise an issue before opening up a PR that addresses the issue.

## Core Contributors & Pull Requests

There's a team of core contributors responsible for the management of this repository, i. e. configuring the CI, releasing new versions and managing PRs & issues.

The approval of a core contributor is required before merging a PR. When a core contributor creates a PR themselves and no other core contributor responds in a week's time, they are allowed to merge the PR themselves even without further approval. All changes (apart from trivial changes when releasing a new version) must be made via PRs.

When issuing a pull request, please add a summary of your changes to the `CHANGELOG.md` file and credit yourself as the author.

## Git

Please use the `work/*` branch naming scheme for any changes and write meaningful **commit messages** (see rationale [here](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)).

## Updating to a new SF Symbols version

With the current structure of the repository, where most code is generated by the `SymbolsGenerator` helper tool, it is quite easy to update `SFSafeSymbols` to a new SF Symbols version (as long as there are no breaking changes in the way Apple organizes the symbols):

1. Update the files in the `/SymbolsGenerator/Sources/SymbolsGenerator` folder to the latest SF Symbols version. Some of the files are created manually (there's a comment at the top of these files, explaing how it is done), some other files are copied from the *Package Contents* of the SF Symbols app.
2. Open a terminal and change to the root folder of the repository. Then run `make generate-symbol`.
3. If new files are created by the generator tool (which is expected to happen when updating to a new SF Symbols version), make sure they are added to the `SFSafeSymbols.xcodeproj`.
4. Update the `README.md`, so that support for the new SF Symbols version is mentioned there.
5. Check the CI configuration and, if needed, make adjustments (or ask a core contributor to do so), so that the new changes are properly tested with a matching Xcode version.

## Releasing

To be able to release a new version, you need to have Core Contributor privileges. If you have those, it's up to you to release a new version whenever you feel that it's appropriate.

To release a new version, follow these steps:

1. Bump the build num in the `SFSafeSymbols.podspec` and at all places in the `README.md` (Version Badge, Version Badge Alt Text, Installation Instructions).
2. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` file by changing the *Unreleased* title to the version num and the release date. Then add a new *Unreleased* Section on top, maintaining the 3 existing subsections (Added, Changed, Fixed).
3. Commit these changes directly to the `stable` branch with the commit message `Bump version num & update changelog`.
4. Release on GitHub and copy the changelog contents for this version into the release notes on GitHub.
5. Publish on CocoaPods using `pod trunk push SFSafeSymbols.podspec --allow-warnings`.
